---
layout: post
author: JYCSEC
---

On the opposite side of the coin to vulnerability research and offensive security, a security engineer's work varies from building and implementing firewalls, and building security tools to detect and stop adversaries from causing damage. In the winter and spring of 2019, I worked in the Northern Virginia area as a security engineer and worked on the defensive side of security.

Initially, I did work more in line with what I expected of a security engineer. I worked with the infrastructure team to deploy security automation in a new environment we were creating. We used Nessus with Splunk integration through Phantom to automate the detection process, and have that notify users through Rocket.Chat. Another project I worked on during my time there was deploying a unidirectional gateway into one of our air-gapped networks so we could better sync core repositories often and smoothly. Due to some limitations of the integrated software, we had to develop a system to better allow the user to use SFTP through the gateway, and verify checksums to ensure file integrity. This also proved useful when we were implementing our own RSYNC protocol.

During the next half of my time here, my role moved on to one that was more akin to a software engineer. I worked on a team that developed a host-based adversary detection suite. Some high-level detection techniques we were utilizing were processes and signals to detect malicious actors. Due to our goal of being lightweight and fast, the code-base was in C and we heavily focused on good design patterns and utilizing only core libraries. We followed TDD (Test Driven Development). Our product was tested across multiple architectures, including embedded systems. Most of my time was spent working with obfuscation techniques and encryption to ensure configuration files were not able to be tampered with and that we were properly blanking everything.

Overall. working in a role like this was rewarding and I learned a bit about what's happening on the opposite side of the aisle. While this garnered new respect for people who work on the defensive side, I couldn't help but feel frustrated at how often I would feel blocked in making progress because there were more things to keep in account for. Building something, while indeed fun to do, sometimes can feel restricting when you consider all the things you must account for that are out of your control or outside the scope of your project. While working around these restrictions can be challenging in of itself, oftentimes, it would leave me more drained than motivated or excited. But hey, if I wanted to build with no restrictions, I would just start my own company, right? (Maybe hinting at something, maybe not ;))
