---
layout: post
author: JYCSEC
---

Working as a security consultant is one of the most awesome jobs you can find in security. It requires a broad yet deep understanding of security, and there is nothing more rewarding than doing a web application penetration test. After sending a meticulously crafted payload, you get rewarded with a root shell on their server. It has to be one of the most exciting jobs you can imagine, and during the Summer of 2018, I got to work as one.

I worked at MWR Infosecurity at the heart of New York City as an intern. I was super excited as it was my first internship. Oozing out newbie vibes, I dove headfirst into the world of offensive security. I can say confidently that during this summer, I learned more about security than I had in my 2 years learning about it at university. I got started with their training program that had me go through exercises that taught me different web application testing strategies, and methods for finding different vulnerabilities. After this, I began practicing on purpose-built, vulnerable web applications. Lastly, after this, I had to submit a report on my findings. This was my first insight into the workflow of being a security consultant.

After our training, we got to do our independent security research on a topic that interested us. I chose Bluetooth security and I tried to hack my electric longboard. I got to learn so much about my board and unlocked a few functionalities that proved to be interesting. But mostly, I got to learn how to do independent research and learn to be more self-sufficient in finding information. I also got to learn a bit about mobile application security as well, which was very interesting and rewarding.

Following this was a shadowing program, where I got to watch and work with real experts as they tested different web applications for vulnerabilities. I was shocked by the complexity of the work they do. Coming off of just having finished the training, it was a little overwhelming. Still, I got to look into the mind of a security consultant as they balanced out their time on these tests to make sure they didn't get stuck in rabbit holes and kept track of areas they wanted to explore later once they covered all their bases. This ability to prioritize would mean the difference in finding all the surface-level vulnerabilities or providing no value at all. This, paired with their knowledge of all the potential vectors, made it a constant back-and-forth as they wrestled to make the best decisions to finish their assessment. 

After the technical part of the assessment was over, it was time to deliver the real value: the report. Ensuring the report contained all their findings and presenting it in a format that would result in the most improvement, which can be an overlooked skill in a technical job but here, crucial. Without a well-done report, finding the crucial vulnerabilities can be meaningless and cause no change. This should mean inversely, writing an amazing report should incite change. However, that isn't always the case.

The term compliance is thrown around a lot in the corporate world and often, to meet these compliance goals, companies will get penetration tests from a third-party vendor to assess their security. These companies will usually make changes from the results of these assessments but sometimes, that is not the case. There are cases where companies get these assessments for the sake of checking a box and, in turn, make no meaningful changes. While this isn't always the case, it can be frustrating to do a penetration test for a client and to have that same client come back the following year with the same vulnerabilities. Still, despite this, I find myself wondering: If I had to choose between working as a security consultant or never have to work again, where would I want the office to be at?
